1a. Tell me what motivated you to take this course.

My prime motivation for taking this course is to become a better engineer. My
supervisor is big on postgraduate education, and directed me towards the OMSE
program.

1b. Tell me what you expect to get out of it.

I consider this course to be the first step in a larger journey. I expect to
learn a bit about software engineering as an art. Secondarily, I expect to
(finally) get through the Brooks text, as I have meant to read it for some time.

2a. Tell me what you disagree with [in chapter 1 of Sommerville].

I disagree with the author's allocation of cost for iterative development
methods (section 1.1.7, page 10).

2b. Explain why you disagree with it.

The author concludes that while specification, design and implementation are not
strictly separated with iterative methods, final testing is still a separate
process step. However, my exposure to these methods suggests that (a) testing is
integrated into design/ development cycles, and (b) each iteration is treated as
a release, with lightweight acceptance and integration testing by the customer
at the end of every cycle. This suggests that the "system testing" segment at
the end of the project is really only final acceptance testing.

I would suggest that the "final testing" section be smaller; it should probably
represent only 10-15% of the total development cost. The full cost for testing
in general is spread through the iteration stage as well.

3. Consider the following scenario: While in the employ of a previous company,
you wrote a very flexible error-handling package for use in their product line.
Recently, you became an employee of a competitor of your previous company, and
discover that using this error-handling package would make your job
significantly easier. Since you kept a copy of the source code, it shouldn't be
too difficult to make a few modifications to adapt the package functionality to
the new software. Would it be ethical for you to do so? Why or why not?

If the copyright to the code belongs to me, then it is certainly ethical for me
to reuse this package. In the more common case (the former employer owns the
copyright), it is a breach of ethics to ship it with another company's product.
A better solution would be to license the code from the former employer.

4. Explain why it is appropriate to consider software to be more than the
programs that can be executed by end-users of a system.

"Software" can be defined as the deliverable product of a software engineering
process - what the customer is paying for. This includes not only executable
code, but also specifications, design documentation, end-user documentation, a
build system, an installation program/procedure, and potentially many other
things.

5. For each of the clauses in the ACM/IEEE Code of Ethics, suggest an
appropriate example to illustrate the clause.

PUBLIC - If Bob is writing software for a traffic light control system, he has
an obligation to ensure that crossing directions do not have green lights.

CLIENT/EMPLOYER - If Suzy wrote a software package for a former employer, she
must not use that package (without permission from the copyright holder) in code
she writes for her current employer.

PRODUCT - If Jim is designing the on-line registration feature for a product, he
must not include functionality that will send personal information about the
user without first asking permission.

JUDGEMENT - Ann is a Windows engineer; she must not agree to design a component
for a Macintosh product.

MANAGEMENT - If Mark is posting an ad for an engineering position, he must not
misrepresent the company by listing a higher salary than he has budget for.

PROFESSION - If Ashley discovers a serious problem in her company's software
product, she must report it to the development team.

COLLEAGUES - If Bill is designing his first user interface, he should include
Dan, who has designed several UIs, in the design review.

SELF - Pat should not waste time "cleaning up" Joe's code just because she
thinks he isn't very smart; that's what code reviews are for.
