* Agenda
  - [X] Review document drafts
  - [X] Review list of requirements questions for Kathy

* Document Drafts
  - Andy (tech spec)
  - Tim (deployment)
  - Ben (proj. mgmt)
    - Missing some content from the requirements doc
    - Labor estimate
    - Team organization

* Questions for Kathy
  - Other teams are
  - Contacting sponsor is important, need questions to be answered
  - All agreed that more frequent contact would be good
  - Discussed meeting times
    - Thurs night after 8:30 (Ben/Andy)
    - Friday after 8:30 (Andy/Tim, maybe Ben)
    - Saturday 8pm
    - Could do during business hours, but harder
  - Andy's questions about Google Apps for Domains & Business
    - Will call out assumptions, but stick with groups
  - Tim: forum selection
    - PHPBB

* Action Items
  - Send questions to Kathy, set up meeting (Ben)
  - Iterate on documents w/ info from Kathy by end of Sunday (all)
  - Propose times for presentation (Ben)
    - 3/5, 8pm
    - 3/2, 9:30pm as a backup

* Next Meeting
  - Meeting with Kathy (time TBD)
  - Agenda
    - Go over questions
